.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2021 Bruno Kleinert <fuddl@debian.org>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH Syncplay 1 "3 November 2022"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
syncplay \- synchronize playback of various video players via internet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B syncplay
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ file ]
.RI [ playeroptions ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B syncplay
command.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBsyncplay\fP is a program that allows you to watch movies with friends or
family at different places synchronized via the internet.

When a viewer pauses/continues playback or seeks within their media player this
will be replicated across all media players connected to the same server in the
same viewing session. A chat function is included so viewers can discuss the
movie while watching it. To improve the communication experience for viewers,
the Syncplay developers and this package suggest to use additional VoIP
(package mumble) or video phone (package jami) software.

Technically, it synchronizes the position and play states of multiple mpv, VLC,
MPC-HC and MPC-BEmedia player instances so viewers' players present the same
movie at the same time.

There are known synchronization issues with VLC. If you experience such problems
use MPV instead.

.SH OPTIONS

This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-gui
Do not show the graphical user interface.

.TP
.B \-a hostname, \-\-host hostname
Address of the server to connect to.

.TP
.B \-n username, \-\-name username
User name to use.

.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Enable debug mode.

.TP
.B \-g, \-\-force\-gui\-prompt
Force configuration window to appear when Syncplay starts.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-store
Do not store configuration settings in .syncplay.

.TP
.B \-r [room], \-\-room [room]
Default room to use.

.TP
.B \-p [password], \-\-password [password]
The password for the server.

.TP
.B \-\-player\-path path
Path to the player binary.

.TP
.B \-\-language language
Language of Syncplay messages. Valid values are de/en/es/eo/fi/fr/it/pt_PT/pt_BR/tr/ru/zh_CN/ko.

.TP
.B \-\-clear\-gui\-data
Resets path and window state GUI data stored as QSettings.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.

.TP
.B \-\-load\-playlist\-from\-file file
Loads the playlist from file. One entry per line.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR syncplay-server (1).
