.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2021 Bruno Kleinert <fuddl@debian.org>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH "Syncplay Server" 1 "February 7 2021"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
syncplay-server \- server to host syncplay rooms
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B syncplay-server
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ file ]
.RI [ playeroptions ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B syncplay-server
command.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBsyncplay-server\fP is a program that syncplay clients connect to and hosts
rooms.

To host rooms for viewers via internet, make sure the server can be accessed
from the internet, i.e., its listening port is not blocked by a NAT or a
firewall.

.SH OPTIONS

This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.

.TP
.B \-\-port [port]
TCP port to listen for connections.

.TP
.B \-\-password [password]
Server password.

.TP
.B \-\-isolate\-rooms
Whether rooms should be isolated.

.TP
.B \-\-disable\-ready
Disable readiness feature.

.TP
.B \-\-disable\-chat
Disable the chat function.

.TP
.B \-\-salt [salt]
Random string used to generate managed room passwords.

.TP
.B \-\-motd\-file [file]
Path to a file from which motd (Message Of The Day) will be read.

.TP
.B \-\-rooms\-dir [directory]
Path to a directory from where room data will be written to and read from. This will enable rooms to persist without watchers and through restarts. Will not work if using \fB--isolate-rooms\fP.

.TP
.B \-\-max\-chat\-message\-length [maxChatMessageLength]
Maximum number of characters in one chat message (default is 150).

.TP
.B \-\-max\-username\-length [maxUsernameLength]
Maximum number of characters in a username (default is 150).

.TP
.B \-\-stats\-db\-file [file]
Enable server statistics using the SQLite database file.

.TP
.B \-\-tls [path]
Enable TLS connections using the certificate files in path.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR syncplay (1).

